---
layout: post
title: Week Two
---
After two weeks in Software Engineering, things are still going well and it has still been a good experience. The lectures continue to be engaging and the material communicated in a very clear and understandable way. I was called on for the first time in class and although I was asked about a Linux command I had not had any experience using, Professor Downing took the time to explain it to me and then ask me to apply my new understanding of the command to an example of a different but similar command which I was able to do successfully thanks to the clear explanation previously given. In many situations people tend to dread being called on to answer a question in class due to fear of the embarassment that might come with not knowing the correct answer, but in this class it is not an embarassment at all. Instead it is leveraged into a learning experience for the student being called upon and all other students present at lecture who may not understand a problem or encountered the topic being discussed, whereas in other classes I have witnessed much less constructive responses in what is supposed to be a safe learning environment. 

Having gotten into the meat of our first project, I am beginning to see where much of the time will be spent on projects for the course. The first project is by no means challenging in terms of finding a working solution. The challenge comes from all of the small software engineering components of the workflow that can be tedious and time consuming when trying to get the program to run smoothly in multiple environments while keeping track of the progress with commits and issue trackers between branches. While it is more than is what required of many projects in your typical CS course, it is nothing compared to what will be encountered in the real world after graduation. While it can be a tedious and painful process at times, it is well worth further developing software engineering skills that will absolutely come in handy when it comes time to pickup new software engineering tools to create much more complex environments and workflows in the future.

Tip-of-the-Week: Get started on projects early. They will take more time than you think they will because of the process of setting up your working environment. Then comes the easy part, doing the project.
