---
layout: post
title: Week One
---
This blog post marks the conclusion of my first week in Software Engineering and although the lectures so far have been over basic introductory concepts, it is pretty easy to see that I am in store for a learning experience unlike any that I have experienced thus far at the University of Texas. It was apparent right away when he began calling students at random from the role to answer questions about the topics being discussed making for a very involved lecture in which the entire class is forced to participate. I have also already been impressed with the tools and skills that are being emphasized early and often that have direct applications to the real world, as opposed to pushing things that don't get you much more than one grade for one class. I was told by several friends who have taken Professor Downing in the past that it would be a lot of work but you would get a ton out of it which is why I didn't hesitate to sign up for this course and Object-Oriented Programming and I can already tell I will not regret it. 

As for the actual discussions during lecture, they have been in depth and explained in a very understandable way. We have been going over simple JavaScript and Python code and getting to see what is going on on the surface and beneath it depending on different compiling flags, different statements, etc. Having used JavaScript in the past, the discussions have been a great review to help refresh and reinforce my previous knowledge. However, I am pretty new to Python and have appreciated the style of the lectures and how easy it has been to get a big-picture feel for the language and then fill in the gaps with the syntax. Overall, the course has been a great experience so far and I am excited to get this semester underway!

Tip-of-the-Week: Get ahead on the reading early because it will help with the lecture discussions and ease the workload when it comes time to start the class projects.
